|    |    |
|:---|---:|
|[Home](/notes/#object-notes) > [Galaxies](/notes/#galaxies) > [Spiral](!spiral_galaxy_info) > [M31](#m31)|  |

# M31
Andromeda Galaxy</br>
Spiral Galaxy

|   |   |   |   |
|--:|:--|--:|:--|
|**Right Ascension**|0h 42m 44s|**Best Seen**|10/1-3/1|
|**Declination**|41&deg; 16' 05"	|**Magnitude**|3.4|
|   |   |**Constellation**|Andromeda|
|   |   |   |   |

|  |  |  |
|---|:--:|:--:|
|  |<br/>**Actual**|**Compared<br/>to Milky Way**|
|**Distance**|2.5 million ly|--|
|**Actual Brightness**|11 billions suns|--|
|**Diameter**|200,000 ly|~1.5|
|**Mass**|400 billion suns|--|
|**Galactic Type**|Sb|Sbc|
|  |  |  |

---
#### What To Look For Through The Telescope
---

1.	Recommended eyepiece: 40 mm on 16 inch, 32 mm on 6 inch.

2.	When people look through the telescope they should see a fuzzy patch of light.    This is the galaxy.  In fact the galaxy is so large that all it cannot fit in the field of view.
   
3.	If they are having trouble seeing it, have them look at a star near the edge of the field, then look back to the center out of the corner of their eye.
   
4.	The view through the telescope will not look like photographs of galaxies they may have seen.  A photograph of a galaxy may have an exposure of many hours.  This long exposure brings out the spiral arms and other details.  Our eyes allow the light to collect for only about 1/30 of a second before they refresh themselves and start over again.

---
## M31 Information
---

1.	This galaxy is the famous Andromeda Galaxy.

2.	This galaxy is a member of the local group.

3.	It is surrounded by about 140 globular clusters.

4.	This galaxy can be seen with the unaided eye.  It was known to the Persian astronomer Abd-al-Rahman Al-Sufi who described it in his book Book of Fixed Stars in 964 A.D.

5.	The Andromeda galaxy is at least two times as large as our Milky Way galaxy, yet the Andromeda galaxy has less mass than our galaxy.  Our Milky Way galaxy is more dense than M31.

6.	The disk of the Andromeda galaxy is slightly warped, possibly due to interactions  with its companion M32.

7.	The nucleus rotates in about 11 million years.  The outer portions of the galaxy rotate in 100 to 200 million years.

8.	With the Hubble Space Telescope, astronomers discovered that the Andromeda galaxy has a double nucleus, possibly because of a collision with another galaxy in the past, or because there’s dust obscuring part of the nucleus.

9.	In 1923, Edwin Hubble found the first Cepheid variable star in the Andromeda galaxy, confirming a distance to M31 that placed it well outside of our own galaxy.

10.	The Andromeda galaxy has been studied so much because we can see all the features of a galaxy that we can’t see in our own because of interstellar dust.  With M31, we can study spiral structure, globular and open clusters, interstellar matter, supernova remnants, planetary nebulae, galactic nuclei, companion galaxies, and more.

|    |    |
|:---|---:|
|[Home](/notes/#object-notes) > [Galaxies](/notes/#galaxies) > [Spiral](!spiral_galaxy_info) > [M31](#m31) > References|[top](#m31)|

###### References
|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
|**Item**|**Updated**|**Notes**|
|Coordinates|2002-09-30|just tweaked a bit|
|Magnitude|2002-09-30|previously: 4.88.7</br>– BUT found mag at</br> <http://messier.seds.org/m/m031.html>|
|Distance|2002-09-30|OK|
|Diameter|2002-09-30|OK|
|Mass|--|  |	
|Brightness|--|  |
|Other Information|2002-09-30|lots of info and reminders from the SEDS site <http://messier.seds.org/m/m031.html>|
